I know everyone is welcome to this project.
This project we're going to build again.
Fun game which is tic tac toe game or no.
X o game.
Okay.
It's very simple but it's kind of you know very interesting you can actually develop it you know and
play with you or with your friends.
So first step is what is the game.
First you know let's let's maybe refresh it real quick.
So first we have a board at OK.
And that board has simply nine parts in it.
And what we need to do is you know if you get any values you know let's say all these are Xs or all
these Xs or these are always or these are all that even they adnams and O's then you know everything
gets that for us.
We're going to win.
Okay.
So the design what I'm going to design it as kind of you know like I'm having no way to play it with
a computer.
You can do that.
We can be kind of part of your exercise should do that.
But he was going to do with going to have two players playing against each other.
OK.
You can have played on one play or two and the whole idea is we're going to ask the player one to insert
to you know let's say location to press X..
Okay so I'm going to press X somewhere within that board.
All right.
That's a first step.
And then the next steps and ask the users to input them all somewhere again.
Location.
Okay.
So they use ogan instead.
So we have an X somewhere in heaven an somewhere and then the next step is we need to check.
OK.
Do we have any winning condition.
So we need to check if we have any of these values are all Xs get any of these values are Xs.
Any of these vendors are access and then you know the the horizontal ones vertical as well.
So what if any one of them are Xs X X's Xs and they're going to two so we have 0 4 8 2 4 6 as well or
all.
So it's either X's and O's and if any of that happen they're going to play a play or whatever that player
gets the first.
We're going to be a winner.
Okay.
There's the overall idea.
Again it's very simple.
We're going to be going to be lot of fun.
So let's let's get started.
So first of all here we're going to run to find the board.
So we are we we have all balled with basically nine locations.
We have seen a one two three four five six seven and eight.
And then here we can actually view the board.
So he's the first type.
What's the type of the board.
You have a list so with the final list it has simply nine spots in it starting from zero and ending
at eight and then we're going first to define a function we'll call it tic tac toe.
Our function this function specifically is made to drop.
So whenever I insert let's say value for x the value of all we're going to draw it's so you know to
the user can know key will have the location.
That's essentially right in the game.
You know for all the players to to to actually pick a move they need to know what player one has done
great so we need to plot that all the time.
But to do that we're going to do again tic toll draw function.
So we've looked at death.
We define a function tic tac toe.
The flush doesn't take basically an argument.
What it does it simply prints prince up bra board 0 1 and 2.
It's the first one for a stroke and then print water three four and five and board six seven eight.
And that's pretty much the first step in employing OK.
So let's let's plot first should I say to the board to veliz ONLY there's no there is no play inserted
x or whatever it values right.
So let's run it and let's.
So that's where they find the function.
This is the actual call for the function.
So now I'm calling the function tic tac toe to actually drop the punch cards which makes sense.
So now we have because nobody has played again we have you know one two three four five six seven eight
which looks good.
That's the board.
That's kind of initialization.
But I think what we're going to do we're week to find two functions.
One for player one and one for players too.
So now we have the main function the jobs we have functioned for play at one function for players to
put them all together.
We're going to call them in kind of you know the main function that simply put a star player want to
play guitar players to to play.
And then we're going to do the main function which is really important to check if any winner.
If not we're going to ask again loop again as they want to play draw play to jar and then check and
we'll keep doing.
That's the overall kind of strategy moving forward.
OK.
So let's take a look at the player input.
So you would want to define again.
Player 1.
There's no one to function and then simply put we're going to ask the users to insert location so once
they're in use it's at the location they can go then update that location with a value of X for player
1 and then you're all for players to say okay print player one enter your desired location location.
They're using an input value so any input when you have any input going to use it will your input and
you can specify it in and look.
That's simply put we need to be 1 from 0 1 to up until 8 or 8.
What we're going to do here they're going to check if the Board of Education.
OK.
So we're going to go into the board into our board.
Are you going to look at the location whatever use it has select.
If the board that the location is not here.
Exclamation what.
Equally means not equal.
That means it's not equal to x.
End the board as one location is not equal to all which means it's an empty spot.
That's basically the meaning of this pushed.
If it's not equal to x if it's not equal to all that means is an empty spot.
That means the use that you know did inflating or made a mistake and then specify hockey in that location
in ball of location or with index of location.
We're going to put x.
Okay that means okay would that mean to be saved.
That's part to be x ray else.
If the user simply put a selector this part that has been already been taken may say OK this point has
been taken.
Please choose someone else which makes complete sense.
And that's pretty much where our players want function to function exactly the same.
However instead of extras in the loop at all that's pretty much sums it up.
So let's run this.
He would define the function here when the job function so with the function which makes sense here
we get to define or are going to run play and once we're going to call Actually that function okay and
then we're going to draw as well just as kind of a mini test for us.
Let's start it.
Then you're 8 player one until a does location on the board.
So let's say I'm going to insert for a means of selecting this but if you press enter then your key
then it makes sense then because we did right after.
So now we updated the actual board so we put the 0 1 2 3 in the main location of 4 actually put an extra
value which makes complete sense for us now or.
There's a player one player 2 was exactly the same.
I see only the five players to win as well get players to do a desert location.
I'm going to do it again.
Again our location will be on inputs and then get us a check or get if Board of location is not equal
to x is not equal to all the USC or keyboard location equal to all going to set at all else.
This poll is taken a check or to select somewhere else right.
That's what it was too familiar to throw in this one too.
That's okay.
Interviewed both look Asian.
So were going to specify okay there all going to be let's say 5 of the select five.
They'll tell you Okay it makes sense.
So we selected the location Five see.
We put 0 in it.
So now we have player who played player tuval played.
So now we have actually kind of pretty much working working functions so we have function to job function
for play and one in front of a player or two.
Now we have the check or the winner chequer function which is one of the most important functions.
So can we actually check even before looking at the code or looking at the solution.
How can we do that.
Simply put.
Which is going to go to the different combinations.
If I find zero one to the location of 0 1 2 has X or 0 1 2.
Has 0.
Then play add 1 or 2 players to wince.
And they were going to do again another if condition check on location 3 4 5 and then 3 refortify all
X's location 6 7 8 of the all X's and so on and so forth.
If any of these.
Basically horizontal or vertical or two diagonals are X's or Ole's then basically play one player or
two wins and judges are to end the game.
It's very interesting and very simple so here that's pretty much the check winner function.
They check when a function simply put checks.
If the board zero boarded one and bought two.
All of them are simply put equates to the are equal to x or.
That's kind of the argument going to be sent to the function because what checking either X or of all
of them one of the same if all of them are Texas.
Or is this going to turn to true is simply a flag was say flag that means okay now which to true.
And that means the function said okay there is a winner somewhere.
OK.
And then I'll get a check book.
But the second horizontal line across the board three four and five that mean the second one is the
same and getting through and they get checked the next hot is on tilt 1 6 7 8 8 6 7 8 8 10 2 and then
we're going to check the vertical ones.
So going chigger 0 3 and 6.
That's a vertical one and then I'll go check 1 4 and 7 1 4 and 7 and then 2 5 and 8 inches to 5 and
8.
And then watching the then the terms as well.
So then the terms are going to check 0 4 0 8 0 4 and 8 2 4 and 6 2 4 and 6.
Makes sense if any of them are going to turn to.
Then we have to check.
Simply put if you basically satisfy their condition is that player one of the players.
All right so now we pretty much have everything in place.
We have different functions for play at one player or two for us.
No check the winner.
And for the drawing it's worked.
Let's put that all together and define them here.
So what we're going to do we're going to keep playing.
So going to the final wild why we had there before several times.
And the key point is we can ask they want to play our players to the play draw and then we get a in
between we're going to do a chequer occasionally check if anyone wins.
If anyone wins we're just going to look.
Simply put.
Okay.
So first ascertain wants to play a key player one function going to call it and draw.
Makes sense.
And then you going to a chequer because play one has just played.
So going to say okay if check winner okay we're going up pesante argument x that will be the argument
going to be sent to the check winner function here.
If it is equal is to true.
That means if all of them if any of these can be satisfied that means play and one has already won.
That means pin play and one wins and they are going to break simply.
Our loop loop in the exact same thing for players to play are to dictate or draw.
And then if check win an equal or equal so then I'm going to print players to wins.
Then going to break and this pretty much sums it on.
Obviously this court is not you know fully intact.
There is a lot of you know like a lot of stuff that can go wrong.
He's just the most simple form that he can actually implement.
Tic tac toe game.
All right so let's end that.
Let's let's run that function so can get it looks good then let's start let's play that game.
OK let's run it.
So play one play one into your desired location on the board.
So let's say we insert location five for example.
Look at this one.
So here you insert location five.
So my apologies actually because here we selected a ready player.
They have five location before.
So here the function there's your key.
None of this parties take em to somewhere else.
So let's let's choose somewhere else.
All right.
So now as we have it all together let's hurry.
So let's see how can we play that game.
So first we're going to run for a couple of cents.
Well right.
And then I'm going to ask.
Want to play.
All right so played once again insert let's say location for.
Right so he wins that and look for these players to to play.
There would be let's say allocation five.
So here you would find there is an X in there is all you are looking at and five and then I'm going
to define the function for wins.
And then here we're going to ask field one to insert the location first.
So location again player one lady play the look in here.
Let's assume going to.
And also look issue six for innocence Section 6.
And that will be x x here and then let's say player of two selected let's say.
Look at eight or so we have 0 0 0 0 sorry and here we have X X below 150 letters two with an on going
to win.
Okay so listen let's play two.
And then you're tape player one once or eight.
Actually that's kind of you know proof of concept which makes sense which looks great.
Then we have kind of you know like a very simple X X or tic tac toe game.
Obviously this again this game is not comprehensive.
It's not like complete.
There's just you know kind of a beginner just you know just to put everything together to show how can
we do define our functions.
How can we get in Clemente while loops If conditions do breaks and so on so forth.
He'd obviously we then include the portion where there is no play win you know like the where.
Simply nobody could achieve you know all of the lines correctly.
So you need to add that obviously if you want to make the game actual game you can add a lot of you
know complexity in there to make it a little bit more than somewhat fun.
But this is kind of a very simple example to show how can you implement the tic tac toe game.
I hope you guys enjoyed their section and see you in the next section.